Password Security Checker

Description:

This Python script provides an essential security measure by utilizing the Pwned Passwords API to determine if a given password has appeared in known data breaches. It's designed to encourage proactive password management, reducing your risk of compromised accounts.

Features:

Reliable Breach Detection: Employs a secure SHA1 hashing process and the robust Pwned Passwords API to accurately detect compromised passwords.
User-Friendly Output: Provides clear and actionable feedback, indicating whether a password has been found in breaches and the number of occurrences.
Password Privacy: Maintains privacy by only sending the first 5 characters of the SHA1 hash, ensuring your password is never fully transmitted.
Installation

Prerequisites:

Python 3 (https://www.python.org/downloads/)
requests and hashlib modules (Install using pip install requests hashlib)
Clone Repository:

Bash
git clone https://github.com/<your-username>/password-security-checker.git
Use code with caution.
content_copy
Navigate to Directory:

Bash
cd password-security-checker
Use code with caution.
content_copy
Usage

Run the script from the command line, providing the passwords you want to check as arguments:

Bash
python password_checker.py password1 password2 strong_password
Use code with caution.
content_copy

Example Output:

password1 was found 38642 times.. I think it is time to change your password
password2 was not found. You are all good.
strong_password was not found. You are all good.

Understanding the Results:

A "not found" result indicates a lower likelihood that the password has been compromised. If your password is found, it's highly recommended to change it immediately on all services where you use it.

Best Practices:

Strong Passwords: Create unique, complex passwords that are difficult to guess. Avoid using common words, personal information, or reused passwords.
Password Manager: Consider employing a password manager to generate and store secure passwords for different services.
Contributing

Contributions to improve the functionality or user experience are welcome!

Fork the repository: "url"
Make your changes.
Submit a pull request.
Disclaimer

Using this script is one step in enhancing password security. It's crucial to follow additional security recommendations for comprehensive protection.

License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the LICENSE file for details.